#summary BioJS workshop. EBI, 20 June, 2012

= Date =
2012-06-20

= Attendees =
We had some people at the EBI interested to learn more about BioJS, so we decided to organize a mini-workshop to show people how to use/develop BioJS components and get some feedback to improve the library. At the end we got 2 people from TGCA, 5 from the Sanger institute and 28 people from EBI.

Anil Thanki - TGCA <br/>
Xingdong Bian - TGCA
Eugene Bragin - Sanger
Dushyanth Jyothi - Sanger
Fabian Schreiber - Sanger
Frank Schwach - Sanger 
Nick - Sanger
Leyla J Garcia- EBI
John Gomez- EBI
Rafael C Jimenez - EBI
Shaun - EBI
Antonio Fabregat - EBI
Mihai Glonț - EBI
Stathis Kanterakis - EBI
John May - EBI
Laurent Gil - EBI
Venkatesh Muthukrishnan - EBI
Swanand - EBI
Francis Rowland - EBI
Joseph Rossetto - EBI
Alan Da Silva - EBI
Mahmut Uludag - EBI
Peter Walter - EBI
Marine - EBI
Noemi del Toro - EBI
Rui Wang - EBI
Samuel Croset - EBI
Rodrigo Ochoa - EBI
Nicolas Rodriguez - EBI
Glen van Ginkel - EBI
Jonathan warren - EBI
Robert Petryszak - EBI
Vladimir Volynkin - EBI
Eduardo - EBI
Florian Reisinger - EBI

= Agenda =
10:00 - 10:30, Introduction to the BioJS project
10:30 - 11:00, How to use BioJS components and the registry
11:00 - 12:00, Tutorial of how to develop a BioJS component
12:00 - 13:00, Lunch break
13:00 - 13:30, Brainstorming and short presentations of ideas
13:30 - 17:00, Helping you to develop a BioJS component

= Presentation =
  * [http://www.flickr.com/photos/francisrowland/7407095724/sizes/o/in/set-72157630205678288/ Francis' sketchnote summarizing the BioJS presentation]
  * [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~rafael/talks/2012-06-10_biojs_workshop/biojs_rjimenez.pdf PDF - Introduction to the BioJS project]
  * [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~rafael/talks/2012-06-10_biojs_workshop/biojs_rjimenez.pptx PPTX - Introduction to the BioJS project]
  * [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~rafael/talks/2012-06-10_biojs_workshop/BiojsLinks.html Examples and list of links presented in the live demo]

=Feedback=
 - To have a registry where people can show their interest to use or develop a component
 - To allow feedback and comments for components in the registry page
 - Check how to include unit testing for components
 - Add a FAQ secction. One general about BIoJS and other one per component
 - If available a component in the resgistry should hava a link to the requirements


=Component ideas=
Component ideas proposed to develop during or just after the workshop:

==Plasmid representation==
Represent plasmid annotations in a circular and linear way using an abstract representation.
Proposed by Frank Schwach
http://plasmogem.sanger.ac.uk/

==Genome browser component==
Create a component to representation of genome information using the latest development of the ENSEMBl canvas viewer.
Proposed by Eugene Bragin

==Periodic table==
A table of the chemical elements as a exercise to learn how to develop a BioJS
Proposed by Glen van Ginkel
http://www.ptable.com/

==Ontology visualization==
Graph view of ontology terms.
Proposed by Venkatesh Muthukrishnan
http://www.ebi.ac.uk/chebi/chebiOntology.do?chebiId=CHEBI:35135

==Tissue expression images==
A component to visualize tissue expression images
Proposed by Jonathan warren

==Features for 3D structures==
Display UniProt coverage, all the PDB acceccion for a UniProt accession. 
Proposed by Swanard
http://www.ebi.ac.uk/pdbe-apps/widgets/unipdb?uniprot=P60493

==3D structure image slideshow==
A component to visualize protein structure images for one PDB acc
http://www.ebi.ac.uk/pdbe-srv/view/entry/3sip/summary
Proposed by Swanard

==PDBe legend image==
Legend to describe information available for one specific PDB accession
http://www.ebi.ac.uk/pdbe-srv/view/entry/3sip/summary
Proposed by Swanard

==Display PDB structures for UniProt accession==
Improve to current Protein3DUniprot component to collect information from the PDBe webservide instead of the DAS alignment server. Sort structures by confidence score suing the new service of PDBe.
Developed by John. Swanard willing to accept this feature request.
http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~jgomez/biojs/registry/Biojs.Protein3DUniprot.html

==ChEMBL component with hig resolution images==
Modify or extend the ChEMBL component to include high resolution images like the ChEBI component. 
Developed by John. Shaun willing to accept this feature request. 
http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~jgomez/biojs/registry/Biojs.ChEMBLCompound.html

==Improve interaction table==
This table is taking as input molecular interactions in PSI-MITAB, however it is not parsing well.
Developed by John. Rafael willing to accept this feature request. 
http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~jgomez/biojs/registry/Biojs.InteractionsTable.html

==Interaction table integrating intereaction from several PSICQUIC resources==
Component extending the interaction table to query several PSIQUIC services with a MIQL query.
Proposed by Marine
http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~jgomez/biojs/registry/Biojs.InteractionsTable.html

==Phylogenetic trees==
Create a BioJS component for phylogenetic trees based on the TreeFam project
Proposed by Fabian Schreiber

==Phylogenetic trees==
Create a BioJS component for phylogenetic trees based on Ian Sillitoe's project
Proposed by Ian Sillitoe (UCL)

==Sequence alignments==
Create a BioJS component for sequence alignments based on the TreeFam project
Proposed by Fabian Schreiber (UCL)

==Structural viewer==
Create a BioJS component for structural views based on Ian Sillitoe's project
Proposed by Ian Sillitoe (UCL)