=Meeting=
  * Date: 2011-08-04
  * Attendees: John Gomez, Sangya Pundir
  * Absence: Rafael C. Jimenez

==Minutes==

Main idea is starting with a simplest component, collecting its requirements across involved groups, asking group leaders or some person in charge (Rafael can help us to figure out the plan of meetings). 

  * Which features are important?
  * What do they want to do with the component? 
  * How the information must be displayed? 
  * Events? 

Before spend time on implementation issues, build a prototype (a mock-up) in order to get feedback, dislikes, improves, etc. Then, refine the specification document and the prototype until a successfully version of component. At this stage, the implementation could be started. 

Guidelines to start the construction of a simple component: Sequences (Nucleotide and amino acid). Sangya recommends to follow these steps:
  # Collect the requirements or features that must be supported by the component. Ask for a group [leader or in charge] person who can be helpful to tell us what is the expected functionality. (Rafael knows who are the indicated for each group).
  # Write/refine the specification of the component
  # Construct a mock-up in order to show a prototype version to the user (it must be a drawing on paper, powerpoint, paint, etc.). The aim is to show the expected functionality.
  # Get feedback from the user. If the prototype does not satisfy the expected functionality. Go to step 2
  # Implement in the programming language 

The idea is to do a quick cycle for one component and see how it worked, see the problems as well and then do that for the other ones. 

Sangya introduced John to Jennifer Cham, the users experience analyst at External Services team.

  * The work you are doing must be coordinated with what happening here.
  * There are a group at EBI named Wizzard (Francis is the leader). They are working on standardisation of web sites at EBI.
  * Global design of EBI websites is happening now.
  * GEL style guide: http://bbc.co.uk/gel 